# Write Custom Parallel Programs by Using the iml ActionThis paper introduces the iml action, which shares most of the same syntax and functionality as the SAS/IML® matrixlanguage that SAS has supported for decades. With minimal changes, most PROC IML programs can run in the imlaction in SAS® Viya® 3.5.   In addition, the iml action supports new programming features for parallel programming. The iml action is differentfrom most actions, which perform a specific task. The iml action provides a set of general programming tools thatyou can use to implement a custom parallel algorithm. The programmer can control the computation itself and cancontrol how the computation is distributed among nodes and threads on a cluster of machines (or threads on a singlemachine). The parallel programming features## Instructions:To run the examples, it is assumed that you: * have access to a **CAS SMP** and a **CAS MPP** server.* have a valid ``casuser`` ID.* know ``your_host_name`` and the ``port_number`` that allows you to access each CAS server.* already installed the [SAS SWAT package](https://github.com/sassoftware/python-swat) to run the python example.To run the examples:- search for ``your_host_name`` and replace it with the name of your CAS-server host in quotes.- search for ``your_username`` and replace it with a valid ``casuser`` ID.- search for ``SMPPort`` and provide the correct port number to connect your SMP CAS server.- search for ``MPPPort`` and provide the correct port number to connect your MPP CAS server.## Additional informationFind the full paper online with the [SAS Global Forum proceedings](https://www.sas.com/en_us/events/sas-global-forum/program/proceedings.html).   **paper ID = 4319-2020**## Support contact(s)Contact the authors with questions, feedback, and lavish praise.   [Rick Wicklin](Rick.Wicklin@sas.com)   [Arash Banadaki](Arash.Banadaki@sas.com)   